capex: capital expenditure is money spent to buy infrastructure.

->additional cost to maintain

->manage infrastructure.

opex: operational expenditure is money spent to use a service or a product.

->zero upfront costs.

->pay for services as you use them.

->example: provisioning VMs as you need them.
0:30
11. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Compliance, Privacy and Governance
126. Step 05 - Understanding Compliance in Azure - Compliance Hub

compliance and azure

->depending on the domain of your enterprise in addition to corporate regulatory policies.
0:17
11. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Compliance, Privacy and Governance
125. Step 04 - Exploring Azure Privacy Docs and Information Protection

privacy and compliance
2:19
11. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Compliance, Privacy and Governance
124. Step 03 - Preventing Accidental Deletion with Resource Locks

resource locks

1)readonlylock: authorized users can read but they cant delete or update resource

2)cannotdelete: can modify but they can't delete the resource.
0:35
11. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Compliance, Privacy and Governance
123. Step 02 - Automating Standard Environments with Azure Blueprints

azure blueprint = one or more (policy + role +arm template+ resource group)
1:28
10. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Understand Azure Support and Guarantees
120. Step 04 - Monitoring Azure Service Status with Azure Service Health

hierarchy: azure status > azure service health > azure resource health
4:53
10. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Understand Azure Support and Guarantees
119. Step 03 - Monitoring Azure with Azure Monitor

azure monitor to analyzed the data of logs , generate logs ,monitor.
0:06
10. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Understand Azure Support and Guarantees
118. Step 02 - Automate Azure Recommendations with Azure Advisor

azure advisor

->automated recommendations to improve reliability,security and performance and reduce costs.

->take immediate actions or schedule or dismiss.

->filter recommendations by subscriptions, resource groups or service.
0:27
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
114. Step 09 - Azure Active Directory & Azure Subscriptions - Remember

azure active directory and azure subscriptions

..transfer.

..associated azure AD tenant is not deleted.
1:05
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
113. Step 08 - Introduction to Passwordless authentication with Azure AD

passwordless authentication with azure azure directory.

complex security frustrates users:MFA user needs to remember passwords and security device.


1:28
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
112. Step 07 - Exploring Azure AD - Role Based Access Control (RBAC)

Role based access control(RBAC)

->configure authorization resources have a an access to.

role assignment has 3 parts:

who?

what permission?

what scope?
0:16
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
111. Step 06 - Introduction to Azure Active Directory Domain Services

diff bet azure directory: microsoft very popular directory service and azure active directory:managed active directory device in azure.
0:01
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
111. Step 06 - Introduction to Azure Active Directory Domain Services

ms active directory is microsoft entra id
0:48
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
108. Step 04 - Exploring Azure AD - Conditional Access

conditional access three important signals:

1)who is the user

2)where is she?

3)what device is she using?
3:02
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
107. Step 03 - Exploring Azure AD - Identity Management in Azure

azure active directory : control enterprise and users and their applications and azure resources.

build application and enable to use sso.

synchronize on-premises active directory with azure ad.

azure AD MFA: authenticate users in multiple ways :- multi factor authentication.

azure AD self service password reset: global administrators can enable the feature to allow users.


2:19
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
107. Step 03 - Exploring Azure AD - Identity Management in Azure

active directory :- very popular microsoft propietary directory service.

-->provides authentication and authorization.

it also provides single sign on service.

-->enables you to login multiple apps and services with same credentials.
1:21
9. Exploring Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Security and Identity Management
107. Step 03 - Exploring Azure AD - Identity Management in Azure

authentication :- is it right user!

authorization : do they have right access?
